you gotta save them for oh dude okay so
this is actually i'm glad because i
almost
i almost posted in response to this
okay so this person is actually
brilliant because it is actually there's
good scientific evidence that this is
part of the problem so every mental
health professional i've ever talked to
has been like
you have a lot of self-awareness men and
i'm like yes i actually think that is
part of the problem
absolutely true so this is can i can i
just
harvard andy for here for a second yeah
that's the point
yeah okay so we have this part of our
brain called the default mode network
okay and the default mode network is the
part of our brain that gives us the
capacity
for self-awareness so if we look at like
animals and humans the biggest
difference between
animals and humans most and animals and
humans anyway is the
is the default mode network so like
animals you know like let's say like you
take a deer or something like a deer
will go about its day and then it won't
think about itself going about its day
but human beings have this capacity of
self-reflection
and so um that capacity for
is this thing called the default mode
network so what i can do
is you know look at my like look at the
actions that i take
and kind of reflect on
my sense of self within these actions um
let me just think about how to explain
that better so
you know if i ask like if a deer looks
around for food in 10 places
and doesn't find food the deer doesn't
start to feel
like an idiot because it hasn't been
able to find food and it's like over 10.
but if we think about human beings if i
you know ask ten girls out
and then they say no like as a human
being i start to think
about myself in that way and then i say
oh my god i'm such an idiot
so human beings have this this and if
you really think about it it's actually
like quite
profound and it's an amazing capability
that our brain has
where we can do like meta-level thinking
about ourselves as we move about in the
world
that is done by the default mode network
so it's essentially our capacity for
self-awareness
now the interesting thing is that once
we have the default mode network
we also evolutionarily speaking by
ourselves
the possibility of depression and what
we
find is that people who are depressed
have overly active default mode networks
okay so let's think about this for a
second okay so like
i asked 10 girls well as two girls out
default mode network is not active
it's just they said no okay both of them
said they had boyfriends no big deal i'm
not
thinking about myself in that way i
asked 10 girls out they all say no
now this default mode network activates
and it's like hey man like maybe
you're ugly or something like that right
it starts like thinking negative
thoughts about you
and it's sort of this meta-level
problem-solving thing where it's like
looking at you as a person and saying
can we change something about ourselves
to increase our overall chances of
success
okay so that's what the
default mode network does now when
someone gets depressed
their default mode network is highly
active
okay and then what happens is when i ask
two girls out but my
default note mode network is highly
active from depression
then i start thinking those meta
thoughts about how i'm the problem
in this big situation except now the
situation is tiny
and when the default mode network is
hyperactive even tiny little things that
really shouldn't be my fault
become like my fault because this
circuit in my brain
that's like being self-reflective is
always on so then you get to these weird
thoughts that depressed people have
like oh my family would be better off
without me and it's just like such a
weird thought but what you really see is
that
this is a situation where you know their
mind
is viewing like a meta problem with
themselves in things that are completely
unrelated
oh like these people are gonna fire me
because i'm a waste of space and like
all the time you're thinking about
yourself thinking about yourself
thinking about yourself
which is literally your capacity for
self-reflection exactly like this guy is
saying
okay so it's like what he's saying he's
like yes your self-awareness is part of
the problem
your mind's being stuck at always
looking at yourself
instead of taking a step back is
actually correlated neuroscientifically
with depression
this person is a hundred percent correct
so
other evidence kind of weird right so
now we have these things like
novel treatments for depression like
ketamine so ketamine is an example
of don't recommend you use ketamine is a
substance of abuse
that can also be used in a licensed and
prescribed way to treat depression
and what ketamine is is it deep it's
like a dissociative agent right so what
it does is it causes you to like
separate from yourself
and so what ketamine does so ketamine is
one of the quickest acting
treatments for depression so if someone
is in a depressive episode and they get
administered ketamine
they can improve within like hours
whereas most things like ssris or
antidepressant medication
will take weeks right so i really do not
recommend that people use ketamine
recreationally because when you use it
as a treatment there's a purity
guarantee there's also an administration
issue because it is a drug of abuse
it's administered with like a nurse
nearby because there can be dangerous
side effects so don't recreationally use
ketamine
or don't even like you know get it
prescribed like use it under the
guidance of a physician
but the key thing here is the
neuroscience of it okay so what does
ketamine do in the brain
so what it does is shut off the default
mode network
so in that dissociation where i stop
getting stuck in myself it actually
shuts off the default mode network
and so some of these other substances
which are you know they're trials now
for things like psilocybin and
mdma and stuff all of those like
hallucinogen substances that cause
people to have this like cosmic
sense of connection it separates you
from this kind of thinking
which is like instead of your high
self-awareness being focused on you
all the time now suddenly like with
these substances your mind is able to
like
pull back from that and you actually
shut off the default mode network
okay so this is actually brilliant it's
a wonderful observation
yes okay so the brain's default mode
network people sometimes want references
right so here's a good
i guess this is written by marcus e
rachley
okay two hours later
does that make sense chad i don't know
if i
you're failing this class for sure
i'm lost okay so
basically this is what the paper says we
normally have an intact sense of self
okay this intact sense of self and our
high awareness of ourselves we're always
looking at ourselves like
like an active default mode network
means that when i'm at a party
instead of paying attention to other
people my mind is constantly occupied by
thinking about myself oh i look stupid
i sound stupid people aren't talking to
me
people are talking to other the focus
of your mind is on i you are the object
of your attention
okay like anxiety yes
then what happens so so when this person
says
like this person on on loretta's says
you know i actually think that
self-awareness is the problem they're
absolutely right because their
self-awareness is a high
level i mean is is their default mode
network being highly active
then we can look at neuroscience papers
and what we discover
is that substances like psilocybin
fracture our sense of self and that can
be traumatic and dangerous by the way
and leave people with ptsd which is why
i don't recommend you do it
fracture the sense of self but when when
you stop when that sense of self gets
fractured you're no longer
stuck thinking about yourself and when
you're no longer stuck
thinking about yourself this problem of
over self-awareness goes away and people
get better
in terms of depression does that make
sense